what's up this is angel from I mix mag
comm and today I'll be going over
Traktor Kontrol x1 and setting the MIDI
with Serato Scratch Live for it alright
so when you get Traktor Kontrol x1 it's
going to come with a CD you install the
CD what you want to do is get into the
app go into applications open it up and
you want to go into Native Instruments
folder you want to open up the control
editor you're going to see the control
editor right around here this one right
here you want to drag that to your
screen and put it somewhere where you
could easily open it every time because
every time you use Serato Scratch Live
the control editor has to be open in the
background and you have to open it up by
selecting it so alright once you do that
you're going to have templates there are
the templates template so whatever you
want to call them right if you don't see
Serato Scratch Live 2.2 and need it but
you want the latest one anyway
what you do is you go into help you go
into launch service center it'll take
you and you'll be able to download the
latest software for the Native
Instruments control editor alright
it already maps it for you but you want
to map it the way you want it to work
because it really doesn't work the way
you want it to work depending on your
style so what you do is you go into
Serato Scratch Live you hit MIDI alright
and let's say you want your cue points
let's say they're not selected I'm just
going to press them to not be selected
I'm going to use this button here as my
first cue point I press it it turns
green it's been assigned I go to the
second one let's say it's not assigned
boom I selected that one it's been
assigned it said it's done alright and
you can check that by just hitting them
and they'll take you to those cue points
if you have something they're set up
with cue points if you want to do more
cue points and you want to use more
buttons for that you go right ahead and
do it alright let's go into something a
little more complicated show MIDI panel
let's open that up now this is where you
want to control this section here
alright um you're going to use this the
size loop and I have it set up already
but let's say it's not set up what you
do is you go to this
let's say it's brown and let's say it's
brown it's not set up you go to this
knob and as you twist it but what you're
going to see when you look is that it
jumps it goes from one extreme to
another that's because you have to you
see there it says press C to change data
type you press C until it says relative
two's complement or whatever whatever
the hell it says right once you do that
if you move it over a little you'll see
that it does right it rolls all right
now you're still not done this won't be
selected if you're just starting you go
to that same button that you control it
with and you press down on it that'll
turn you put selected on and off so
you'll be hooked up that way so let's
see if it's working still all right it's
working not a problem
excellent let's go to the next thing
sound effects just control that roll
that let's go into let's set I'm going
to use let's say that's not what you got
to do for this is you have to go into I
want to use this button to turn to
select this effect alright
so when I press that button I got a hit
a sign over here right when I press that
button this mode would naturally be on
maybe something else you have to make
sure it's on toggle and you have to make
sure that action is on up then I already
have it assigned but if it wasn't
assigned you would just press it and
let's see if it's working off the
buttons off on the buttons on and to
control the knob let's say it's not
assigned don't have to just twist it
once you press it and it's assigned and
you would do the same thing with the
next one
alright you would go to on you do the
same exact thing but the difficult part
here also is if you want to use the
master I use this FX two here on the
right-hand side cuz we're only working
with the right hand side to control the
right hand deck completely
and you have to make sure that it's once
you select it it's on toggle right let's
go to it
let's press that f it has to be on
toggle and it has to be action on down
then you'll see that you're set on off
I'm off alright let's see how this is
working so far alright it's a lot of
work and you've got to tweak it the way
you want to tweak it when you finally
get to work it's really worth it so
let's go let's get out of MIDI
everything is already set up in the
background is put some music on let's
get out I got this set up to turn off go
to that first cue point don't you bit
don't you bit don't you be a dirty bit
dirty bit the cool thing about this is
got the roller here
it's full of rolling the loop the cool
thing you could use this let's say the
second cue point and you could press it
down at the same time let's say I have
both effects on right put the master
effects on
and you can use the looper like I showed
you before press it to get out of it
then you want to reassign it again you
want to do this and you just all right
for the wrong one alright so that's
about it I hope it helped if you have
any questions leave them in the comments
section I'll get back to you so once
again this is angel from AI mixmag calm
and remember DJ's make it happen
pace